---
layout: post
title: Marietta Fischesser-Metze
author: [Florian Metze]
image: /M4.jpg
permalink: /_posts/2023-05-20-marietta
---

Marietta Fischesser-Metze was born in Wiesbaden (Germany) and is a graduate of „Musikakademie Wiesbaden” (flute) and of „Hochschule für Musik und Darstellende Kunst Frankfurt am Main” (voice).

In Germany, she worked as a music teacher, choir conductor and oratorio singer, and performed as the soprano soloist in “Musikalische Exequien“ (H. Schütz), “Matthäus Passion” (G. Ph. Telemann), “Gloria” and “Magnificat“ (A. Vivaldi), “The Messiah” (G. F. Haendel), “Magnificat”, “h-moll Messe” and several cantatas (J. S. Bach), „Requiem” and several masses (W. A. Mozart), “Die Schöpfung” (J. Haydn), all masses by F. Schubert, “Hör mein Bitten” and “Die Geburt Christi” (F. Mendelssohn-Bartholdy), “D-Dur Messe” (A. Dvorak),  “Oratorio de Noël” (C. Saint-Saëns), “Petite Messe Solennelle” (G. Rossini), “Die sieben Worte Jesu am Kreuz” (C. Franck), “Magnificat” (J. Rutter), and many more. In 1992, she was awarded the “Jugendkulturpreis der Stadt Idstein”. 

She was a member of professional choirs like the “Chamber Choir of Europe” (conducted by Nicol Matt) and was recorded as a soloist for “Brilliant Classics“ with the “Chamber Choir of Europe“ as well. With the Chamber Choir of Europe (formerly the Nordic Chamber Choir) she also recorded choir music by Morten Lauridsen, John Rutter, and Bob Chilcott -- all of it in presence of the composer. With the “Chamber Choir of Europe” she recorded the complete choir music of W. A. Mozart, Johannes Brahms, and Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy.

Participation in choir festivals, competitions (Marktoberdorf, Tolosa, Arezzo, Tours, etc) and concerts brought her to Canada, Mexico, the Philippines, China, Spain, Russia, Italy, France, Switzerland and Great Britain. 

She was a founding member of the “flûtes joyeuses” flute quartet, which performed at the opening of the renovated “Deutscher Bundestag” in Bonn, at the invitation of its then president, Dr. Rita Süßmuth, and at numerous other occasions.

For many years, she worked as a teacher for flute and recorder at “Jugendmusikschule Idstein”, and as the conductor of various instrumental ensembles.

She was the vocal trainer of “Domchor Limburg”, “Kinder- und Jugendchor der St. Hedwigs Kathedrale Berlin”, and “Idsteiner Kantorei”. For many years, she successfully worked as a choir conductor. One of her choirs, the “Junger Chor Wörsdorf”, was awarded several prizes, and won the “Kulturpreis des Rheingau-Taunus-Kreises” in 2008. Starting in 2007, she was the leader and conductor of “Kantoreischule Potsdam”, which consists of three children's and youth choirs. 

She moved to Pittsburgh/ Pennsylvania in 2009, where she worked as a soprano soloist, and as a voice, flute and piano teacher.

In March 2010, she performed as “Herself” in the “Microscopic Opera Company” production of “The Proposal” by Milton Granger. She also was a soloist in the “Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh” performance of J. S. Bach's “h-moll Messe” in April 2010 and W. A. Mozart's Great Mass in C Minor in March 2012.

She was a member of the “Mendelssohn Choir of Pittsburgh” (choir of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra) professional core.

She was the soprano soloist in Dietrich Buxtehude's “Membra Jesu Nostri,” and Claudio Monteverdi's “Vespro della Beata Vergine”, amongst other works, performed by the Choir of “Calvary Episcopal Church” Pittsburgh and Chatham Baroque.

She was a member of the chamber choir “Pittsburgh Camarata,” and was one of the soloists of their performance of Georg Friedrich Haendel's “Messiah”.

In January 2020, she moved to Larchmont, NY.
